All right let's go back to all the questions.
And now let's see or analyze the query that being executed
just to show all of this questions. To do that we have two options actually. The first one is using get query
log from `DB` class. And the second one is by using third party package called Laravel Debug Bar
So to use it we need to install it first
OK to make it clear we'll try all options.
We start analyzing our query using the first option and then try the second option after that.
All right
since the laravel debug bar needs to be installed
so before we moving on let's go to our terminal
and install the laravel debug bar package by typing: composer install
then the package name `barryvdh` forward slash `laravel-debugbar`
And since we'll use this package only for development
we need to add --dev flag. Hit return
ups
I'm sorry
This should be composer require
hit return. Now
while composer downloading and installing this package
Start analyzing our query using the first option.
Let's head over to our editor
and open question controller.
Firstly we need to enable the query log by simply call DB enableQueryLog
Then we don't need to return the view as a response so we need to remove the return
and then chain the view function call with render like so. So render method return the string content of
the View.
And by doing this our view will get compiled but it will not rendered to the browser
finally we can see the query log by calling DB double colon getQueryLog and then pass this in
laravel dd helper like this
OK save that. Header over to our browser and reload the page
As you can see, here we get array contains query that has been executed
The first one is query to count all records.
The second one is query to display all questions.
And this came from here
and the rest are queries to get user information
And all these came from
from here and here.
So this problem is something called n + 1 query problem.
So here
we limit the record to 5.
That's why we have 5 queries in here.
Now if we try to change the limit number to let's say 10 or any number
and then reload the page
the query that executed here we'll be increase.
So when accessing Eloquent relationships as properties
like this one, the relationship data is
"lazy loaded" which means the relationship data is not actually loaded until you first access the property.
So to fix this N+1 query problem we can "eager load" the relationship  at the time we query
the parent model.
So here we can specify which relationships should be eager loaded using `with` method with
In this case user
as we defined in here
save that and reload the page again.
All right
now we only have three queries two queries actually because the first query is came from paginate method.
Now let's see this second query.
As you can see it now `select all from users where the id in` values that specified in parenthesis.
So behind the scene Laravel will collect all ids of all user
from the first query, and then pass
them to the second query.
Now here the installation of laravel debug bar was completed
so let's see the query log using this package before we end this lesson.
Let's remove the query log
Remove the render method
and add `return` before `view` function call.
Save that. And then reload the page again.
here all questions come back.
And here in the bottom left corner we'll find an icon. Let's click that. And here you can see the same queries
as we saw before.
OK that's it
we've added author information and question creation date in every single question
and now we know how to define accessor, how "lazy loading" works and how to solve N+1 query
problem by using "eager loading".
In the next lesson we'll continue building our project by adding some counters for number of votes, answers
and views on the left side of every question.
Don't forget to save our work to git repo.
git add all. git commit
-m and I'll say add author info and question creation date in
Question item
and I'll commit the current branch to my remote repo
git push origin
lesson-5
OK
Let's switch to our master branch: git
checkout master. Ups
git checkout master and then merge to lesson-5 branch: git merge lesson-5. And last
let's push our master branch to our remote repo: git push
origin master
OK great.